11/29/2011

I. GPU geometry

1. fix HT calculation for viewpoint to account for GPU geometry
  - Unless noise is "abs" -HT terrain results in underground view
2. Add GPU geometry to HDR shader (zvals)
3. Add GPU geometry to shadows shader

II. Normals
1. Matching Vertex noise (point) and pixel noise (texture) maps
   high resolution bumpmap lighting onto low resolution geometry
   - makes vertex terrain look as good as GPU generated terrain
     with the same noise functions
   - render/adapt speed (Dell 3500 dual-zeon 2.5 GHz CPU, quadro fx 580 GPU)
     o vertex+bumps 8 FPS
     o geom+bumps   0.6 FPS
   - Can this be automated somehow?
III. Terrain
1. Fractals
  - Can iterative shader passes using RTT and Geometry shader be
    used to generate fractal terrain or images ?
2. Erosion
  - continue vertex study using neighbor transport model
    Images:
    o pass 1 render using noise function and save intensity as ht field
    o pass 2 read ht field texture and use gradients to generate 
      deposition images
    o pass 3 generate new ht field image from deposition and previous
      ht field image
    o repeat 1-3 until convergence (no signifigant change in ht field)
    Terrain:
    In adapt pass:
    o pass 1 use vertex based method for large scale features (RTT)
    o pass 2 create ht map using z-buffer data and xy image coodinates
    o pass 3-n repeat from pass 2 of image method until convergence
    In render pass
    o apply eroded image as bump-map texture
    
5/2/2023

IV. Vegetation
 1) Low profile plants using simple textures
  proposal
    - download or create a set of sparse texture images of various plants and vegetation(grasses bushes etc.
    - using gimp, set transparency to 100% for backgraound parts of image (save as png files)
    - blend images as overlays (random or noise controlled alpha) onto underlaying terrain
 2) render 3d plants using billboards
   proposal
   - download or create a set of profile images of various plants and trees
   - set transparency to 100% for background parts of image
   - use placement method in VTX (as for craters and rocks) to assign spawn positions of plants
   - use billbord method (as in 3d cloud option) for rendering
 3) auto-generate random plants using procedural techniques
   proposal
   - use fractalization techniques to render trees etc. forking branches and leaves in a heirachical manner
     o this was done in paint project on mac in the 80's
   - generate images for buillboard rendering (as above) or 3d solid models
    